---
layout: page
title: Reading Machines: Technology and the Book
subtitle: An experiential graduate seminar in the English Department at Northeastern University
bigimg: /img/8155665827_08680a7ca1_o.jpg
---

This course will pivot around the double valence of its title, outlining a literary history of "new media" from the hand-press period to the present. First, we will draw on scholarship in book history, bibliography, media studies, and digital humanities to better understand *machines of reading* (e.g. the printed book, the internet) as material, historical, and cultural objects. We will examine how practices of reading, writing, and publishing have interacted—thematically and materially—with contemporaneous technological innovations over the past 250 years. We will complement our readings with praxis, gaining hands-on experience with textual technologies from letterpress (using the English Department's new letterpress studio) to computer programming, as well as direct experience with archival materials in special collections around Boston. Together, weekly "book labs" and course discussions will help us consider relationships among modes of textual production, reception, and interpretation: including in our purview both "intellectual work," such as writing, and "manual labor," such as typesetting. Through our discussions, we will unpack the second valence of the course title, developing greater capacities to critically *read machines*, analyzing the political, cultural, and social forces that shape—and are shaped by—textual technologies. We will raise urgent questions around privacy, algorithmic bias, intellectual property, information overload, and textual authority, asking how a rich new media history might inform our technological present and contribute to a richer construction of the digital humanities field. This course will include a substantial introduction to programming in the R language, but presumes no prior technological expertise. IOW: we will start at the very beginning (a very good place to start). 